docs/how-to/running-the-tests.md, before:

# How To - Running the tests

## Introduction

This guide shows you how to run both the Unit and UI tests for an iOS app.

## Where are the tests?

The Unit and UI tests are located under the `Tests` and `UITests` folders respectively, found on the left hand side in the project directory in Xcode:

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/project-directory.png)

</div>

## How to run the tests

To run all the tests together, click and hold the play button in the top left of the toolbar and select `Test`. Xcode will automatically build and run all tests.

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/run-tests-button.png)

</div>

Individual tests can be run by going to the desired test file and clicking the button to the left of the test definition - this can test a whole class, extension or one specific test:

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/individual-test.png)

</div>

## Test results

Navigating to the test icon in the left-hand window of Xcode (at the top of the project directory, there's a mini-toolbar. The test icon will look like the test icon used to run the tests):

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/test-panel.png)

</div>

Test outcomes will be displayed here, and also in the corresponding test files:

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/test-results.png)

</div>

Commit message:

feat: initiate login (build) (#15)
* chore: set up build config, scheme and added plist values for build configs

* chore: making OneLoginBuild scheme shared

* test: Setup test plans for build and staging

* chore: making OneLoginStaging scheme shared

* chore: adding OneLoginTests to build and staging test plans

renaming test targets and test plans

* chore: removing unneeded build stage steps

* fix: reestablishing user-defined build configuration values

* fix: changing action configurations

* fix: removing @testable from files importing Authentication package

moving configuration tests to separate test folder

* chore: establishing Staging build config and adapting workflows to use it

* fix: updating Xcode version and amending quality report workflow

* fix: removing iPhone 14 from test devices

* fix: using staging .xcresult file

* docs: amending documentation to reflect project changes

* fix: amending test directory

* fix: renaming configuration test folders

* fix: updating project file with new folder reference

* fix: updating config tests target

* fix: changing scheme, testplan and referencing correct result file

* fix: removing old config

* fix: bash fastlane options variable for scheme

* fix: amending sonar properties for Tests folder

* chore: adding testWithoutCoverage lane

* chore: adding testing action to merged workflow

* chore: removing offline_access scope and updating authentication package commit

* fix: fixing tests and updating documentation

* chore: implicit return abbreviated static instance property

* fix: updating sonar properties directory path for sources and tests

---------

Co-authored-by: mcgarj <joe.mcgarry@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk>

docs/how-to/running-the-tests.md, after:

# How To - Running the tests

## Introduction

This guide shows you how to run the Unit, Configuration and UI tests for an iOS app.

- Unit tests test project code and are run in all schemes.
- Configuration tests test configuration-specific values, these values will vary per scheme.
- UI tests test end to end journeys interacting with the app as a physical user would.

## Where are the tests?

The Unit, Configuration and UI tests are located under the `UnitTests`, `ConfigTests` and `UITests` folders respectively, within the `Tests` folder, found on the left hand side in the project directory in Xcode:

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/project-directory.png)

</div>

## How to run the tests

To run all the tests together, click and hold the play button in the top left of the toolbar and select `Test`. Xcode will automatically build and run all tests.

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/run-tests-button.png)

</div>

Individual tests can be run by going to the desired test file and clicking the button to the left of the test definition - this can test a whole class, extension or one specific test:

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/individual-test.png)

</div>

## Test results

Navigating to the test icon in the left-hand window of Xcode (at the top of the project directory, there's a mini-toolbar. The test icon will look like the test icon used to run the tests):

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/test-panel.png)

</div>

Test outcomes will be displayed here, and also in the corresponding test files:

<div style="width: 100%; max-width: 800px; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;">

![Screenshot showing the project directory in Xcode](assets/running-the-tests/test-results.png)

</div>
